PT J
AU Ratti, M
AF Ratti, Manav
TI Writing the village, becoming the nation: The work of Manoj Das
SO JOURNAL OF COMMONWEALTH LITERATURE
LA English
DT Editorial Material
DE Aurobindo; environment; India; language; Manoj Das; politics; religion;
   short story; South Asian literature; villages
AB Manoj Das is a leading senior writer within Indian literature, with his novels, short stories, and poems centring on village and rural life, mingling realism and everyday experiences with elements of mystery, mysticism, and the supernatural as he explores the vicissitudes and aspirations of the human condition. As he describes here, Das has been "greatly influenced" by the transition and transformation of India from colonialism to postcolonialism. His writings - with dramatic suspense, magical realism, and a style that with a minimal touch can convey nuances of character, motivation, and emotion - evocatively capture some of the most distinctive aspects of Indian culture, spirituality, arts, and history. His work has been compared with other famed Indian authors, particularly those writing in English (Mulk Raj Anand, R. K. Narayan, Raja Rao). In this interview, Das reflects on his life work, including the role of translation (in an Indian context of "transcreation"). Das also shares his candid views on the poetics and politics of "regional language literature" (RLL) and "Indian writing in English" (IWE), an opposition relevant to postcolonial studies in the context of the (national and international) distribution and reception of literature and the wider politics of language. Conducted in the southern Indian city of Puducherry, home to the Sri Aurobindo Ashram, this interview presents the influence of philosopher and guru Sri Aurobindo on Das and his work, including Das's most recent scholarship on Sri Aurobindo. Das also discusses the influences on him by the well-known Indian writers Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, Fakir Mohan Senapati, and Rabindranath Tagore. This is the first interview with Das published outside of India and in the West.
C1 [Ratti, Manav] Salisbury Univ, Salisbury, MD USA.
C3 University System of Maryland; Salisbury University
RP Ratti, M (corresponding author), Salisbury Univ, Dept English, Salisbury, MD 21801 USA.
EM manav.ratti@linacre.oxon.org
FU Sabarmati Fellowship at the Gandhi Ashram (Ahmedabad); Salisbury
   University Faculty Mini-Grant
FX The author(s) disclosed receipt of the following financial support for
   the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: This
   research was funded by a Sabarmati Fellowship at the Gandhi Ashram
   (Ahmedabad) and a Salisbury University Faculty Mini-Grant.
NR 58
TC 0
Z9 0
U1 0
U2 4
PU SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
PI LONDON
PA 1 OLIVERS YARD, 55 CITY ROAD, LONDON EC1Y 1SP, ENGLAND
SN 0021-9894
EI 1741-6442
J9 J COMMONW LIT
JI J. Commonw. Lit.
PD MAR
PY 2022
VL 57
IS 1
BP 18
EP 31
DI 10.1177/0021989418760975
PG 14
WC Literature, African, Australian, Canadian
WE Arts &amp; Humanities Citation Index (A&amp;HCI)
SC Literature
GA ZJ5VH
UT WOS:000762372800002
DA 2024-02-08
ER