PT J
AU Srivastava, A
   Green, D
   O'Brien, RP
   Parra, LA
   Schrager, SM
   Goldbach, JT
AF Srivastava, Ankur
   Green, Daniel
   O'Brien, Rory P.
   Parra, Luis A.
   Schrager, Sheree M.
   Goldbach, Jeremy T.
TI A Proposed Taxonomy for Categorizing Sexual Identities in Adolescence
SO PSYCHOLOGY OF SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND GENDER DIVERSITY
LA English
DT Article; Early Access
DE sexual identity; sexual orientation identity; sexual orientation;
   taxonomy; sexual minority adolescents
ID SAME-SEX; HEALTH; ORIENTATION; GAY; PREVALENCE; SUICIDALITY; VALIDATION;
   DEPRESSION; BEHAVIORS; STRAIGHT
AB Assessing adolescent sexual identity is complicated, and contemporary sexual identities are gaining greater complexity and variation. However, current measures do not capture the diversity of contemporary identities among adolescents. Thus, our study utilized a large national data set of sexual minority adolescents aged 14-17 years (N = 2,558) in the United States to propose a taxonomy of sexual identities among adolescents. Participants responded to a close-ended sexual identity question, followed by an open-ended qualitative question. Using the steps outlined in content analysis procedures, two researchers independently coded the open-ended responses, which were then discussed to establish consensus. Coding of open-ended responses to the sexual identity question resulted in eight categories, with more than 25% of adolescents identifying with less common sexual identity labels. We further tested differences in sexual identity among responses to the close-ended question, sociodemographic characteristics, and mental health outcomes using chi-square and analysis of variance tests. We found overall differences in sexual identification by close-ended responses, age, and assigned sex at birth. However, we did not find any difference in sexual identity by race and ethnicity or urbanicity. We also found differences in sexual identity by mental health symptoms and suicidal outcomes, especially among respondents who identified with less common sexual identity labels. Findings from our study provide cutting-edge information on sexual identities that better captures the current state of adolescent sexual identity classification in the United States. Future research should employ this taxonomy of eight sexual identity categories to collect data that reflect contemporary evidence. Public Significance Statement Findings of this study of the diverse sexual identities among adolescents suggest that, compared to adolescents reporting more common identities (e.g., gay, lesbian, bisexual), those reporting less common sexual identities (e.g., pansexual, queer) are at greater risk for negative mental health outcomes. Further, because these less common sexual identities are often not captured using current measures, the authors propose a more diverse categorical list of eight sexual identities that could be used by researchers to collect this important demographic information in future studies.
C1 [Srivastava, Ankur] Univ N Carolina, Sch Social Work, Chapel Hill, NC USA.
   [Green, Daniel] Salisbury Univ, Sch Social Work, Salisbury, MD USA.
   [O'Brien, Rory P.] Univ Southern Calif, Suzanne Dworak Peck Sch Social Work, Los Angeles, SC USA.
   [Parra, Luis A.] Univ Michigan, Sch Nursing, Ann Arbor, MI USA.
   [Schrager, Sheree M.] Calif State Univ Dominguez Hills, Carson, CA USA.
   [Goldbach, Jeremy T.] Washington Univ, Brown Sch Social Work, St Louis, MO USA.
   [Srivastava, Ankur] Univ N Carolina, Sch Social Work, Tate Turner Kuralt Bldg,325 Pittsboro St, Chapel Hill, NC 27516 USA.
C3 University of North Carolina; University of North Carolina Chapel Hill;
   University System of Maryland; Salisbury University; University of
   Southern California; University of Michigan System; University of
   Michigan; California State University System; California State
   University Dominguez Hills; Washington University (WUSTL); University of
   North Carolina; University of North Carolina Chapel Hill
RP Srivastava, A (corresponding author), Univ N Carolina, Sch Social Work, Tate Turner Kuralt Bldg,325 Pittsboro St, Chapel Hill, NC 27516 USA.
EM ankursri@unc.edu
FU National Institute of Minority Health and Health Disparities Grant [R01
   MD012252-01]
FX This work was supported by the National Institute of Minority Health and
   Health Disparities Grant number R01 MD012252-01 awarded to Jeremy T.
   Goldbach and Sheree M. Schrager. The content of this paper is solely the
   responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the
   official views of the funding agencies. The funding source played no
   role in the study design; in the collection, analysis, and
   interpretation of data; in the writing of the report; or in the decision
   to submit the article for publication. We have no known conflicts of
   interest to disclose.
NR 54
TC 0
Z9 0
U1 0
U2 0
PU AMER PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOC
PI WASHINGTON
PA 750 FIRST ST NE, WASHINGTON, DC 20002-4242 USA
SN 2329-0382
EI 2329-0390
J9 PSYCHOL SEX ORIENTAT
JI Psychol. Sex. Orientat. Gend. Divers.
PD 2024 FEB 1
PY 2024
DI 10.1037/sgd0000685
EA FEB 2024
PG 12
WC Psychology; Psychology, Multidisciplinary
WE Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED); Social Science Citation Index (SSCI)
SC Psychology
GA GU4H4
UT WOS:001155167700001
DA 2024-02-08
ER