PT J
AU Severgnini, E
   Vieira, VA
   Abib, G
   Leonel, R
AF Severgnini, Elizandra
   Vieira, Valter Afonso
   Abib, Gustavo
   Leonel, Ronei
TI When CEO compensation plan based on risk changes firm strategic
   variation and strategic deviation? The moderating role of shareholder
   return
SO MANAGEMENT RESEARCH-THE JOURNAL OF THE IBEROAMERICAN ACADEMY OF
   MANAGEMENT
LA English
DT Article
DE Performance; CEO pay; Strategy; Strategic change; Compensation plan;
   Strategic deviation
ID EXECUTIVE STOCK-OPTIONS; CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; MANAGERIAL; MANAGEMENT;
   TOP; PERFORMANCE; PAY; INCENTIVES; OWNERSHIP; PERSPECTIVE
AB Purpose - The authors extend the recent research using the risk component of human resource's (HR's) compensation plans to examine the effects of risk components on two strategic outcomes: within-firm temporal change, or strategic variation, and firm strategic divergence from the industry, or strategic deviation. In addition, the authors examine the role of previous financial performance as a boundary moderator condition of the effects of risk components in the compensation plan and firm strategic outcomes.
   Design/methodology/approach - To examine the effects of low- and high-risk components of executive compensation on strategic variation and deviation over time, the authors collected data from 2,510 companies listed in the Standard and Poor's 500 index in a panel data format of a 12-year period. The authors gathered financial and other firm-level data from COMPUSTAT, and executive compensation and executive-level data from ExecuComp.
   Findings - The findings support the main effects of risk components on strategic change, while both high- and low-risk components act on strategic deviation contingent on the moderating role of total shareholder return (TSR). In the theoretical framework, the authors test the moderating role of total shareholder return (TSR) as a boundary condition of the effects of risk components in the compensation plan. In doing so, the authors provide a fine-grained understanding of the influence of compensation plan risk components on outcomes proximal to executives, such as the maintenance of the status quo and the search for financial gains.
   Research limitations/implications - New studies can explore a three-way moderating effect on performance indicators, such as TSR, Tobin's Q and return on asset. The authors addressed this limitation and did a comparative analysis, but the authors did not include additional moderating mechanisms in these interactive effects.
   Practical implications - By disaggregating the executive's compensation based on the risk components, boards of directors can mitigate any possible unwanted biases in the relationship between principal and agent.
   Originality/value - By considering the influence of both low- and high-risk components of compensation plans on strategic outcomes -instead of firm performance - this study expands strategy literature supporting the influence of compensation schema on a firm's outcomes. This path is new because it offers a moderating perspective to understand the strategic deviations and changes that chief executive officers imprint in their firms.
C1 [Severgnini, Elizandra] Fed Univ Technol Parana UTFPR, Dept Management Gest & Econ DAGEE, Curitiba, Brazil.
   [Vieira, Valter Afonso] Univ Estadual Maringa, Sch Management, Maringa, Brazil.
   [Abib, Gustavo] Univ Fed Parana, Sch Management, Curitiba, Brazil.
   [Leonel, Ronei] Salisbury Univ, Franklin P Purdue Sch Business, Salisbury, MD USA.
C3 Universidade Tecnologica Federal do Parana; Universidade Estadual de
   Maringa; Universidade Federal do Parana; University System of Maryland;
   Salisbury University
RP Severgnini, E (corresponding author), Fed Univ Technol Parana UTFPR, Dept Management Gest & Econ DAGEE, Curitiba, Brazil.
EM esevergnini@utfpr.edu.br
FU Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico [001];
   Coordenacao de Aperfeicoamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior [001]
FX This work was supported by Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento
   Cientifico e Tecnologico, 001 and Coordenacao de Aperfeicoamento de
   Pessoal de Nivel Superior, 001.
NR 94
TC 0
Z9 0
U1 1
U2 1
PU EMERALD GROUP PUBLISHING LTD
PI Leeds
PA floor 5, Northspring 21-23 Wellington Street, Leeds, W YORKSHIRE,
   ENGLAND
SN 1536-5433
EI 1558-0946
J9 MANAG RES
JI Manag. Res.
PD NOV 13
PY 2023
VL 21
IS 4
BP 371
EP 403
DI 10.1108/MRJIAM-04-2023-1414
EA SEP 2023
PG 33
WC Management
WE Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI)
SC Business & Economics
GA W8YP8
UT WOS:001067448400001
DA 2024-02-08
ER