PT J
AU Cresiski, RH
   Ghent, CA
   Rutledge, JC
   Carter-Veale, WY
   Aumiller, J
   Bertot, JC
   Enekwe, B
   Golembewski, E
   Medina, Y
   Scott, MS
AF Cresiski, Robin Herlands
   Ghent, Cynthia Anne
   Rutledge, Janet C.
   Carter-Veale, Wendy Y.
   Aumiller, Jennifer
   Bertot, John Carlo
   Enekwe, Blessing
   Golembewski, Erin
   Medina, Yarazeth
   Scott, Michael S.
TI Developing a State University System Model to Diversify Faculty in the
   Biomedical Sciences
SO FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY
LA English
DT Article
DE faculty diversity; biomedical sciences; postdoc; AGEP; state university
   system
ID CAREERS
AB Amid increasing demands from students and the public, universities have recently reinvigorated their efforts to increase the number of faculty from underrepresented populations. Although a myriad of piecemeal programs targeting individual recruitment and development have been piloted at several institutions, overall growth in faculty diversity remains almost negligible and highly localized. To bring about genuine change, we hypothesize a consortia approach that links individuals to hiring opportunities within a state university system might be more effective. Here we present a case study describing the progress of the NSF-funded Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) PROMISE Academy Alliance, a consortium within the University System of Maryland (USM) collaborating to develop, implement, self-study, evaluate, and disseminate a unique postdoc-to-faculty conversion model in the biomedical sciences. The initiative centers on diversifying faculty across five institutions in the USM, including teaching-focused institutions, comprehensive universities, research institutions, and professional schools. Components of this approach include (1) enhanced recruiting and hiring practices to attract outstanding postdoctoral scholars from underrepresented backgrounds, (2) multi-institutional networking and professional development, and (3) facilitated processes to transition (or "convert") postdocs into tenure-track positions at their postdoctoral institution or another institution in the state system. This model is distinct from more deficit-based approaches because it goes beyond focusing on building the individual's skills to enter the professoriate. This program restructures the traditionally short-term nature of postdoctoral employment and incorporates a pathway to a tenure-track professorship at the same institution or within the same statewide system where the postdoc is trained. This multi-institutional model leverages collaboration and distinct institutional strengths to create cross-institutional support, advocacy, and policy. Importantly, it uses a decentralized financial structure that makes this approach distinctly replicable. Recognizing the immediate need for more collaborative approaches to diversify faculty and a lack of literature about such approaches, this case study describes the development of, and potential benefits of, a state university system, as well as the qualitative lessons learned from self-study, internal evaluation, external evaluation, and NSF site visits. The AGEP PROMISE Academy can serve as a model for replication at other university systems hoping to diversify their faculty.
C1 [Cresiski, Robin Herlands; Rutledge, Janet C.; Carter-Veale, Wendy Y.; Medina, Yarazeth] Univ Maryland Baltimore Cty, Baltimore, MD 21228 USA.
   [Ghent, Cynthia Anne] Towson Univ, Towson, MD USA.
   [Aumiller, Jennifer; Golembewski, Erin] Univ Maryland Baltimore, Baltimore, MD USA.
   [Bertot, John Carlo; Enekwe, Blessing] Univ Maryland Coll Pk, College Pk, MD USA.
   [Scott, Michael S.] Salisbury Univ, Salisbury, MD USA.
C3 University System of Maryland; University of Maryland Baltimore County;
   University System of Maryland; Towson University; University System of
   Maryland; University of Maryland Baltimore; University System of
   Maryland; University of Maryland College Park; University System of
   Maryland; Salisbury University
RP Cresiski, RH (corresponding author), Univ Maryland Baltimore Cty, Baltimore, MD 21228 USA.
EM rcresisk@umbc.edu
FU National Science Foundation (NSF); Directorate for Education and Human
   Resources (EHR); Division of Human Resource Development (HRD); Alliances
   for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Awards; University
   of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC) [1820984]; University of Maryland
   College Park (UMCP) [1820975]; University of Maryland at Baltimore (UMB)
   [1820983]; Salisbury University (SU) [1820971]; Towson University (TU)
   [1820974]
FX The AGEP PROMISE Academy Alliance is supported by the National Science
   Foundation (NSF), Directorate for Education and Human Resources (EHR),
   Division of Human Resource Development (HRD), Alliances for Graduate
   Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Awards: University of Maryland
   Baltimore County (UMBC; 1820984), University of Maryland College Park
   (UMCP; 1820975), University of Maryland at Baltimore (UMB; 1820983), and
   Salisbury University (SU; 1820971), and Towson University (TU; 1820974).
   The award to UMBC (1820984) is being used for author fees for this
   publication.
NR 43
TC 1
Z9 1
U1 0
U2 2
PU FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
PI LAUSANNE
PA AVENUE DU TRIBUNAL FEDERAL 34, LAUSANNE, CH-1015, SWITZERLAND
SN 1664-1078
J9 FRONT PSYCHOL
JI Front. Psychol.
PD MAR 17
PY 2022
VL 13
AR 734145
DI 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.734145
PG 14
WC Psychology, Multidisciplinary
WE Social Science Citation Index (SSCI)
SC Psychology
GA 0I0LL
UT WOS:000779119600001
PM 35369137
OA Green Published, gold
DA 2024-02-08
ER